Title: Very first post
Date: 2016-6-24 7:00
Tags:  hello, introduction
Category: misc
Slug: very-first-post
Summary: My entrance into the blogosphere
Status:

Well, at age 33, I'm finally doing it. I'm writing my very first blog post. How did I get here? No, don't worry. This wasn't a question about my life story but rather about the path I took to getting this site up and going and what motivated me to blog. Well, to answer the first part of the question, I spent what seemed like an inordinate amount of time selecting a static site generator and theme to use, but eventually I committed to using Pelican with a very slightly modified crowsfoot theme. I'm relatively happy with how it looks, but expect (this is for that one person visiting my site) continuous tweaks to the appearance as I gain more familiarity with html and css. I'd like to thank several other bloggers out there whose posts allowed me to navigate my way through setting up this blog with Pelican and then hosting it on S3. Over the past week, these guys have become mini-heroes of mine, and I hope this site doesn't ape them too much: [Greg Reda](https://www.gregreda.com), [James Porter](http://jamesporter.me/), [Lexual](http://lexual.com/blog/setup-pelican-blog-on-s3/), [Macmanus](http://www.mamcmanus.com/posts/amazon-s3-pelican-site), [Nafiul](http://nafiulis.me/making-a-static-blog-with-pelican.html).

So, why did I decide to set up a blog? In large part, I just wanted to learn how to set up a blog! I have minimal experience in web programming and design, so this site seemed like a good excuse to join the 21st century and become familiar with html, css and the Python accessories (Pelican, Jinja2) that make dealing with html and css a lot simpler. Alright, but the site is up, now what? For one, I'd like to become better at writing, and as we all know, practice makes perfect. But more so, I'm a believer in the idea that if you can't explain something, then you probably don't understand it all that well. And because I want to learn about new things data science and programming related, I want to write about them to help cement my own understanding. So yes, perhaps a slightly selfish reason for blogging. But hey, I'm the one who makes decisions here. Hopefully, however, if someone were to accidentally stumble upon this site, they will find it a combination of informative and funny, or at the very least aesthetically pleasing, because like I said, I cycled through what seemed like 10 themes before I finally committed to one. First world problems.

Fair warning... don't expect this blog to be all that active. While I'd like for this to become a relatively regular thing, life does tend to get in the way. But do expect a post some time in the very near future on visualizing the bias-variance tradeoff. Why not start off with a classic statistical topic?
